Elaborate on the differences between dev mode and continuous builds (#248)
enonic/doc-xp: docs/apps/build-system.adoc

=== Development Mode

[WARNING]
====
As the name implies, development mode is intended only for development use and should _not_ be used in production. Doing so would cause both security and performance issues.
====

Enonic XP can be run in a special mode known as _development mode_. In this mode, XP will detect any changes to your project source files, including JavaScript controllers and XML schemas. It does this by reading these files directly from their source locations instead of from the application `.jar` file.

> Development mode also disables some of XP's caching mechanisms. (What mechanisms and why?)

Reviewer: - assetUrl function generates new fingerprint for every request, so browsers can't cache assets
- resource cache invalidated if resource `modified time`changes.
- entire JavaScript `require` cache invalidated  if any of required resources  `modified time`changes.

=== Development Mode

[WARNING]
====
As the name implies, development mode is intended only for development use and should _not_ be used in production. Doing so would cause both security and performance issues.
====

Enonic XP can be run in a special mode known as _development mode_. In this mode, XP will detect changes to your project source files, including JavaScript controllers and registered XML schemas. It does this by reading these files directly from their source locations instead of from the application `.jar` file.

[NOTE]
====

> Because of the way that XP works, some changes are not picked up in dev mode: if you add a _new_ content type, XP will not pick it up automatically. This is because content types are registered with XP when _deploying_ an app. However, changes to existing content types _are_ detected. If you'd like to have new content types picked up automatically, try using xref:build-system#_continuous_building[continuous build mode].

Reviewer: > This is because content types are registered with XP when _deploying_ an app

I'd rather take a look at it. Application loader code is complicated and there might be a bug, but I can't confirm that content types get registered when app is deployed.

Author: Aight, got it. I'll look into rewording this next week. It's not really important *why* it doesn't work, as long as the reader knows that it doesn't. Thanks!

> This does not affect JavaScript controllers. You can add new controllers and they will be picked up by XP automatically.

Reviewer: This is where things get complicated for dev mode:
if controllers are written in ES6 or TypeScript they require transpiling. Only vanilla JS controllers can work without `gradle build` step.
Also applies for css vs sass/less

Reviewer: You mention it later, so probably it is irrelevant.

Author: Why does ES6 require transpiling? From what I understand, JS controllers are somehow interpreted by the Java runtime (using Nashorn?), and this doesn't support the full ES6 feature set. Is this why? 

Not to be pedantic, but I think this is a good distinction to make: when you say "vanilla JS", you mean ES5, is this correct? I think it would be misleading to use "vanilla JS" to refer to pre-ES6 JS in the docs, considering ES6 (and later versions) are still "vanilla".

Reviewer 2: Nashorn supports ES6 partly, there are overview tables that explain what it supports and not. Perhaps we should link to that?

Author: That might be useful. Is this documented elsewhere in the XP docs (or other Enonic docs)? I don't think we need to go into intricate detail here, but I think would be helpful to say something along the lines of 

> JavaScript controllers that require some sort of compilation step won't be sourced directly. To find out more about what features are and are not available, check out <these docs>

Author: @sigdestad Are these nashorn ES6 compatibility tables available anywhere? I found this [JEP](https://openjdk.java.net/jeps/292), but it doesn't have a clear overview listed.

Reviewer 2: I've used this one: https://kangax.github.io/compat-table/es6/
Nashorn is called JJS afaik.

+

If development mode does not work for you, try using xref:build-system#_continuous_building[continuous build mode] instead.

Development mode also disables some of XP's caching mechanisms. To make the development workflow as smooth as possible, XP tries to invalidate caches for your static assets. This is to prevent you from getting stale resources so that what you see in the browser is always as up to date as possible.

Running XP in development mode may be convenient if your project does not rely on additional build steps such as JavaScript bundling. If you need to run arbitrary build tasks before deploying your project, check out xref:build-system#_continuous_building[the section on continuous builds].

To activate development mode, use one of the following commands to start your sandbox:

Enonic CLI:: `enonic sandbox start --dev`

Linux/MacOS:: `$XP_INSTALL/bin/server.sh dev`

Windows:: `$XP_INSTALL/bin/server.sh dev`

=== Continuous building

Gradle also supports a https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/command_line_interface.html#sec:continuous_build[continuous build mode].

> In continuous build mode, Gradle will monitor your project assets for changes and run a task you specify task when something changes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In continuous build mode, Gradle will monitor your project assets for changes and run a task you specify when something changes.
```

Continuous builds come in handy when the changes you're working on require a full compile and redeploy, such as when you're working with Java or need to build/compile client-side assets with an external build tool (such as webpack).

> Another use case for continuous builds is if you're adding _new_ content types (or other XML schemas?). Because these are registered when an app is deployed, you need to compile and redeploy your app for XP to become aware of them.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

=== Development Mode

[WARNING]
====
As the name implies, development mode is intended only for development use and should _not_ be used in production. Doing so would cause both security and performance issues.
====

Enonic XP can be run in a special mode known as _development mode_. In this mode, XP will try to detect changes to your project source files, including JavaScript controllers and registered XML schemas. It does this by reading these files directly from their source locations instead of from the application `.jar` file.

Because of the way XP reads source files directly in development mode, it has a few limitations:

- Files that require any sort of compilation (including transpilation) are not detected unless you run a build process on the side. For instance, if you use TypeScript or JavaScript features that XP doesn't support, these files won't be picked up by default. To have XP detect them, run a separate build process on the side, such as either a xref:build-system#_continuous_building[continuous build] or a webpack build.
+

> NOTE: XP uses the  Nashorn JavaScript engine for compiling JavaScript. For an overview over what JavaScript features Nashorn supports, see https://kangax.github.io/compat-table/es6/#nashorn1_8[this feature table].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: XP uses the  Nashorn JavaScript engine for executing JavaScript. For an overview over what JavaScript features Nashorn supports, see https://kangax.github.io/compat-table/es6/#nashorn1_8[this feature table].
```

+

> - XP will not pick up _new_ content types. If you add a new content type after your previous project deploy, XP will not be able to see it. However, changes to _existing_ content types _are_ picked up. XP will pick up new JavaScript controllers as long as it can run them without compilation (as per the previous point).

Reviewer: > XP will not pick up _new_ content types
Is it true @anatol-sialitski ?

Reviewer 4: I've just test that and as the result a new content type is appeared in Content Studio without redeploy a project. Pay attention that I test that after [this](https://github.com/enonic/xp-gradle-plugin/pull/83) fix in gradle plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> If you need any of the above features, try using xref:build-system#_continuous_building[continuous build mode] instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If development mode does not work for you, try using xref:build-system#_continuous_building[continuous build mode] instead.
```

Development mode also disables some of XP's caching mechanisms. To make the development workflow as smooth as possible, XP tries to invalidate caches for your static assets. This is to prevent you from getting stale resources so that what you see in the browser is always as up to date as possible.

> Running XP in development mode may be convenient if your project does not rely on additional build steps such as JavaScript bundling. If you need to run arbitrary build tasks before deploying your project, check out xref:build-system#_continuous_building[the section on continuous builds].

Reviewer: This is confusing... webpack recreates the bundle in build directory and new bundle sis picked up nicely.MAybe remove this paragraph alltogether?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
